选择题
All of the following roles are stakeholder except:

All of the following are important system attributes except: attractivity

Which of the following are elements of a SA: All 

Which of the following is not a precondition for architectural review? finished design

ATAM outputs include:

Which of the following role will not played by the ATAM Evaluation Team?

Context menu can be supported by which model?

简答题
What is The Architecture Business Cycle (ABC)?
ABC is cycle of influences, from the environment to the architecture and back to the environment

List 5 architecture patterns/styles.

How is an architectural pattern/style determined.
a set of component types 
a set of connector types/interaction mechanisms 
a topological layout of these components
a set of constraints on topology and behavior 
一组元素类型（如数据存储库或计算数学函数的组件）
指出其相互关系的元素的拓扑布局。
一组语义限制（如管道――过滤器样式中的过滤器是纯数据转化器――他们以增量形式将其输入流转换为输出流，但并不控制上游流或下游元素）。
一组交互机制（如子例程调用、事件――调阅者、黑板）、他们确定元素将如何通过允许的拓扑进行协调。

Bass et al's classify all architecture structures into 3 main categories, what are them?

List 5 architecture structures according to Bass et al.

What is a quality attribute scenario?
a means to characterize system quality attributes, consists of 6 parts:
stimulus source
stimulus
environment
artifacts affected
system response
measurement of response
A unified way to express quality requirements

How do you consider that functionality and quality attributes are orthogonal?

Discuss the benefits of architectural reviews.

When can architectural reviews begin?

What is brainstorming?

Explain risk points in architectural decision.

Explain non-risk points in architectural decision.

Explain sensitivity points in architectural decision.

Explain trade-off points in architectural decision.

List ATAM steps.

What is a utility tree?

broker vs SOA

论述题
How do the environment influences designs?
Stakeholder with different, sometimes conflicting concerns; 
Business Environment and Organizational Structure (organizational structure, resources, assets, business strategies);
The Architect's Background and Experience

How do Architecture Design Change the Business Environment?
They affect the structure of the organization.
They affect the business goals of the organization.
They affect customer requirements for new products.
They affect how future architectures are designed.

What is availability? what tactics can be taken to used for availability?

What is ADD? describe the steps to carry out ADD.
ATAM一种进行构架评估的综合方法，ATAM是评估软件构架的一个健壮的方法。
在该方法中，项目决策者和涉众要清晰地阐述一个准确的质量属性需求列表（以场景的方式），
并说明与实现每个高优先场景相关的构架决策。
然后，把这些决策确定为有风险决策或无风险决策，以找到构架中任何存在问题的地方。

ATAM活动的4个阶段：
在第0阶段（合作关系和准备）确定细节：人员名单，时间，地点；评估小组获取资料并进行初步了解分析。
第1阶段，评估阶段，决策者参与，小组开始信息收集与分析；耗时约1周。1～2周中断期，评估小组进一步以非正式方式了解构架。
第2阶段，评估阶段，涉众参与，分析继续；约2天。
第3阶段，后续阶段，生成最终报告，进行评估活动总结；1周。
评估阶段的步骤：
第1步：ATAM方法的表述。评估负责人向决策者表述ATAM方法，使大家理解其过程，了解角色布局。
第2步：商业动机的表述。决策者介绍系统商业动机、重要功能、各种限制（任何相关的技术、管理、经济和政治限制）、商业目标和上下文、主要的涉众、驱动因素等。
第3步：构架的表述。首席设计师或架构小组介绍构架，技术限制、所用模式等。
第4步：对构架方法进行分类。评估小组利用所有已知信息对构架方法进行分类。
第5步：生成质量属性效用树。生成质量属性效用树，捕获详细的需求信息，为每个场景分配一个级别，如（高，中），前者为重要度，后者为实现难易度，重点放在（高，高）的场景；此处场景具备刺激、环境、响应三要素就可以了。
第6步：分析构架方法。评估小组分析所有重要场景，设计师解释如何支持该场景，检查所用构架方法，分析风险点、权衡点、敏感点。
经过一段中断期，第2阶段开始，此时涉众开始参与；首先仍然需要一个对ATAM方法的介绍，并使涉众了解已有的成果。
第7步：集体讨论并确定场景的优先级。集体讨论并分析场景的优先级，以了解更广泛的涉众的想法；该过程可能产生新的场景；使用“有限票数法”投票确定每个场景的优先级――此处不考虑实现难度。
第8步：分析构架方法。分析新的高优先级的场景，构架师解释构架是怎么满足各场景的。
第9步：结果表述。总结评估结果，评估负责人展示该结果。

How to create a skeletal system?

